ONEPOINT — FROM DATA TO REPORTS, WITH HVE SQUAD
Hands-on workshop: scope and start an Office add-in
English local companion — 17 September 2026, 09:00–12:30 CEST
The final thirty minutes are reserved for discussion.
Parts 01 and 02: Before the workshop, self-paced, 0 live minutes.
Complete them before Thursday; they are excluded from the live agenda.
At 09:00, start Part 03 with planning init and product work, not an opening
presentation or installation block.

LIVE AGENDA — 210 MINUTES, INCLUDING BREAK AND PROTECTED DISCUSSION
09:00–10:00 | 03 Product scope and first release | 60 min
10:00–10:30 | 04 Federation and technical decisions | 30 min
10:30–10:40 | Break | 10 min
10:40–11:45 | 05 First slice and evidence | 65 min
11:45–12:00 | 06 Review and independent resumption | 15 min
12:00–12:30 | 07 Discussion and next steps | 30 min, protected

GETTING STARTED (PowerShell, at this repository root)
Node 24+ and npm are required; dependencies locked by package-lock.json.
  npm ci
  npm run dev -- --host 127.0.0.1
Open the actual local address displayed by Vite.

VALIDATION AND PRODUCTION BUILD
  npm run lint
  npm test
  npm run build
  npm run preview -- --host 127.0.0.1
Optional local browser check (Windows, Edge installed):
  node scripts\browser-check.mjs
This check uses an isolated Edge profile in artifacts, an ephemeral local
server and CDP APIs through Node; no new dependencies or shared browser.
EDGE_PATH can select another compatible Chromium executable.
It checks subpath hosting, keyboard operation, confirmations, export, reset,
themes, negative cases, mobile layout and standalone HTML.
It also checks the Qubix brand, original logo, separate pre-work,
Part 03 live start at 09:00 and print/portable timing and embedded logo.
It does not test the Office add-in. The report and screenshots stay in
artifacts, excluded from Git. Browser and server close after the check.
The build produces:
  dist\index.html and assets: Pages-compatible static site.
  dist\onepoint-workshop-portable.html: standalone variant with scripts,
  styles, original SVG logo, license and four downloads embedded,
  directly openable in a browser with no logo fetch.
The portable variant is an ordinary local file, not a version intended
for secure OneDrive/SharePoint preview. Local persistence depends on the
browser; use progress export. No server or Office access is required to
read the guide. External sources open only on reader action.
No customer connector or Office outcome is executed.

CONTENT AND FILES
src\content.ts: separate pre-work and live agenda, complete requests,
criteria, recovery and sources.
src\App.tsx: navigation, App/CLI clients, plug-in/APM installation, copy,
confirmations, progress, export, reset, themes, focus mode, full printing,
lab and downloads.
src\state.ts: isolated Onepoint storage and confirmation dependencies.
src\report.ts: data-contract simulation, without Office APIs.
src\index.css: Qubix's exact HVE Squad --cp-* light/dark/print tokens,
including --cp-brand buttons; existing responsive layout and typography.
public\hve-squad-logo.svg: unmodified Qubix HVE Squad SVG, MIT licensed.
SHA-256: 325cf59d606085357e81c746d3c8b1671f07be076746c59c11864fd7e9891034
public\THIRD-PARTY-NOTICES.txt: logo provenance, MIT license and existing
React/HVE Core notices. Attribution is embedded in the portable guide.
public\downloads\report-studio-exercise-brief.txt: synthetic exercise brief.
public\downloads\report-studio-fixture.json: two periods, three indicators,
null variant and missing period, with explicit expected behaviors.
public\downloads\checkpoint-worksheet.txt: blank acceptance and decisions.
public\downloads\federation-handoff.txt: blank handoff.
scripts\portable.mjs: builds the standalone variant from Vite output,
without new dependencies. Build stops if the structure is no longer suitable.

TEACHING CONTRACT
Word and PowerPoint remain targets. Word-first, synthetic data and MVE
thresholds are teaching proposals to approve, not approved customer
requirements. The lab does not validate Office integration.
Nominal periods: July (1280; 4.2; 96.5) and August (1345; 3.8; 97.2).
Three indicators: cases processed, average turnaround in days, compliance %.
Before implementation, participants place the JSON in
data\report-studio-fixture.json at their project root; the scoping TXT
stays in knowledge-docs.
Null case: average turnaround is missing, not zero.
Missing-period case: September does not exist; no implicit substitution.
Blocking incomplete insertion is a proposed convention to approve.
Decide and test the reinsertion rule to preserve manual additions.
Unexecuted experiments have no prefilled results.

SEQUENCE
Before the workshop (Parts 01–02, self-paced, 0 live minutes):
1. Prepare the participant repository and knowledge-docs before installation.
   Example guarded against an existing folder: onepoint-workshop-project.
   Private inputs are excluded from Git; also check tracked files.
2. Install the hve-squad + hve-squad-hve-core pair in the actual client,
   or install the APM reference in the participant repository.
   v0.16.2 is the Qubix rehearsal baseline; verify Onepoint versions.
3. Choose Squad Coordinator: App list or CLI /agent, not a slash skill.
Live workshop (Parts 03–07):
4. At 09:00 in Part 03, send planning init; confirm the team; send the
   product request. Both initialization and product work occupy 09:00–10:00.
5. Review BRD, PRD, MVE and backlog; agree the scope.
6. Choose Squad Federation Coordinator; send promote; confirm.
7. Send delivery init within the federation; confirm.
8. Send the implementation business request; approve the plan before execution.
9. At 11:45, preserve evidence and prepare resumption. At noon, discuss.
If pre-work is still blocked at 09:00, pair up in an approved environment
and record individual readiness gaps; do not add a live installation block.
Azure DevOps is optional, never a mandatory phase.
No generic Power Platform resources or Dataverse environment are required.

PROGRESS LIMITATIONS
Checkboxes and workstation notes are self-reports in localStorage.
The key is specific to Onepoint and this workshop date.
Copy depends on setup confirmations: unchecking a prerequisite invalidates
dependent confirmations. This does not inspect the real repository,
initialize any team or grant consent to an agent.
A read error suspends saving and preserves existing data.
Export before closing or resetting if needed. Exports contain reported
versions: enter no secrets, private information or scoping documents.
Reset requires a second choice and affects only this workshop.
The English correction preserves lesson IDs, setup IDs, schema 1 and the
localStorage key. Existing self-reported progress stays compatible.
Moving Parts 01–02 to pre-work preserves their numbers and checkpoint IDs.
Progress and exports still include all seven parts; checkpoints are not
live-time accounting. The overview offers unfinished pre-work or Part 03.
Fixture indicator keys and negative-case IDs are stable machine identifiers;
their labels, metadata and expected messages are English.

PRIVACY AND REPOSITORY STATE
This repository is the GUIDE, not the participant project. No Office
documents, private briefs, real data, meeting records, access details,
customer identities or meeting URLs belong here.
No uploads, analytics or remote fonts. Supplied files are synthetic or blank.
No preinitialized team state. The guide repository is named
onepoint-hve-squad-workshop and uses main as its publishing branch.
Do not place private material in public\ or dist\.

GITHUB PAGES PUBLICATION
The .github\workflows\pages.yml workflow runs only manually.
The validation workflow never deploys.
Before an explicitly authorized publication: review source and dist,
confirm versions and scope, configure Pages for GitHub Actions in the
chosen repository, then trigger the workflow manually.
Do not infer a public URL: use only an actual confirmed deployment URL.
base './' and fragment navigation support subpath hosting.

TO CONFIRM BEFORE THE WORKSHOP
- Actually installed client, HVE Squad and HVE Core versions.
- Office support for the manifest, requirement sets and native editing.
- Sideloading and HTTPS development certificate authorization.
- Agreed slice, null/missing-period convention and reinsertion rule.
- If access is missing, pair up or use the browser engine; Office remains unvalidated.
- Real Fabric/Power BI, authentication and permission/RLS tests:
  separate future work; no executed integration is claimed here.
