REPORT STUDIO — SYNTHETIC BRIEF WRITTEN FOR THE EXERCISE
Version exercise-1.0 — Onepoint workshop, 17 September 2026

This document is a generic teaching creation. It reproduces no private
brief, approved need or customer meeting record. Data, scope names and
values are synthetic. Every requirement below belongs to the exercise
scenario; first-slice choices remain to be approved.
Save this TXT in knowledge-docs at the participant repository root.

BEFORE THE WORKSHOP — SELF-PACED, 0 LIVE MINUTES
01. Outcome and method: understand the learning outcome and separate
    team setup from business work.
02. Environment and context: prepare the participant repository,
    readable knowledge-docs, client and tools before Thursday.
Complete both parts at your own pace. The readiness request checks
understanding only; planning init and product work start live in Part 03.

LIVE AGENDA — 17 SEPTEMBER 2026, CEST — 210 MINUTES
09:00–10:00 | 03 Product scope and first release | 60 min
10:00–10:30 | 04 Federation and technical decisions | 30 min
10:30–10:40 | Break | 10 min
10:40–11:45 | 05 First slice and evidence | 65 min
11:45–12:00 | 06 Review and independent resumption | 15 min
12:00–12:30 | 07 Discussion and next steps | 30 min, protected
09:00–09:10: readiness check-in inside Part 03's existing 09:00–10:00 slot.
From 09:10: planning init, confirmation and product work.
If preparation is blocked, pair up in an approved environment and record
the readiness gap; do not add a live installation block.
At 11:45, stop adding scope and preserve actual evidence for resumption.
Do not consume the final thirty-minute discussion.

CLIENT CHOICE
App/CLI: choose Squad Coordinator through the App agent list or CLI /agent;
prepend mode="autopilot" and a blank line to every plain request except
init/promote, which remain unchanged. For VS Code, prepare this repository and knowledge-docs,
then install APM, authenticate and run at the participant repository root:
  apm install "Peter-N91/hve-squad#v0.16.2" --target copilot
Confirm /squad and /squad-federation prompt entries in GitHub Copilot Chat.
Do not overlay duplicate plug-in/APM resources. A terminal or MCP-only
installation does not prove prompt availability. The guide's VS Code tab
renders complete commands. Single-squad initialization uses the setup text
in request, without a leading init line or an init flag.
Federation promote and init are standalone flags, not mode values.
All clients require exact mode="autopilot" for every non-lifecycle request,
including readiness, product, implementation and read-only resumption.
VS Code: /squad mode="autopilot" request="..." for readiness/product;
/squad-federation mode="autopilot" request="..." for implementation/resumption.
Exceptions: /squad request="..." for planning init;
/squad-federation promote request="..." and
/squad-federation init request="..." for federation lifecycle only.
Ellipses describe syntax; copy full guide blocks. Installation shell commands
are unchanged. No optional mode: keep request scope, read-only boundaries,
requested stops, plan/impactful-action approvals and final validation.
Untargeted federation autopilot can span routed sub-squads. Never invent
a registered squad name. Setup confirmations remain separate self-reports.
Sources:
https://github.com/Peter-N91/hve-squad/blob/v0.16.2/squad-src/.github/prompts/squad/squad.prompt.md
https://github.com/Peter-N91/hve-squad/blob/v0.16.2/squad-src/.github/prompts/squad/squad-federation.prompt.md
https://github.com/Peter-N91/hve-squad/blob/v0.16.2/apm.yml

1. SCENARIO BUSINESS OBJECTIVE
A fictional team regularly prepares a reporting summary from indicators.
It wants to reduce retyping and retain an Office document that an author
can enrich before distribution.
The target product is an Office add-in for Word and PowerPoint.
Fabric and Power BI are potential future sources, not connections
available or executed during the exercise.

2. SCENARIO REQUIREMENTS
E1. The user selects a period and sees the scope and corresponding
indicators before inserting them into the document.
E2. Generated content stays editable in Word and PowerPoint; an image
or PDF export alone does not meet this objective.
E3. Content displays its source, reference date and the version of the
data model or output template used.
E4. The author's manual additions survive a new insertion under an
explicitly agreed rule.
E5. Errors and missing data are visible. No missing value is invented,
silently carried over or converted to zero.
E6. Tests distinguish generated output, browser simulation, executed
Office integration and validation still to be done.

3. TEACHING PROPOSAL TO APPROVE — NOT AN APPROVED CUSTOMER REQUIREMENT
In Word, select an available period, preview three synthetic indicators, then insert an editable native table and data provenance. A second insertion must not remove manual comments: agree and test the intended behavior.
In PowerPoint, insert an editable summary using the same data if time and host APIs allow. Otherwise, keep the criteria and remaining work in the backlog.
Two periods and three indicators intentionally limit complexity.
The proposed convention blocks insertion of an incomplete report if
a value is null; approve it before implementation.

4. SYNTHETIC DATASET AND TESTS
File: report-studio-fixture.json, schema 1.0, template exercise-1.0.
Scope: Synthetic Demonstration portfolio.
Source: Local synthetic Report Studio dataset. Reference date: 2026-09-01.
Indicators: cases processed (cases), average turnaround (days),
compliance rate (%).
July 2026: 1280; 4.2; 96.5.
August 2026: 1345; 3.8; 97.2.
Null-value negative case: August average turnaround is unavailable;
explicit message, not zero, no reuse of July's value, no insertion
of the incomplete report under the proposed convention.
Missing-period negative case: September 2026 is not in the dataset;
explicit message, no substitution with August, existing document preserved.
These negative cases are test variants, not a third nominal period
or a fourth indicator.

5. MVE — MINIMUM VIABLE EXPERIMENT
Test in the selected host whether generated content remains editable and manual additions survive a new insertion. Two datasets, three indicators, zero invented values and zero lost comments. Proposed threshold to approve; the experiment has not been executed during preparation.
Proposed protocol: test both periods, edit the table, add a comment,
reinsert under the approved rule and compare results.
No experiment result is prefilled. Record the host, version, protocol,
evidence and not-executed status if the Office test was not run.

6. DECISIONS TO MAKE
Hosts and versions; supported manifest type and requirement sets;
sideloading authorization and local HTTPS server;
reinsertion rule (new section or controlled replacement);
Word and PowerPoint output templates; first-slice criteria.
Later: Fabric/OneLake access contract or Power BI semantic model,
authentication, least-privilege permissions and preserved authorization/RLS.
A Power BI export does not guarantee editable Office elements.

7. OUTSIDE THE EXERCISE AND DELIVERABLES
No production connectivity, administrator consent during the session,
customer deployment, complete scheduled automation or promise of
a finished Word and PowerPoint MVP.
Deliverables: reviewed business and product requirements, MVE, prioritized
backlog, selected slice, decisions, real evidence and handoff.
Azure DevOps is only an optional extension after authorization;
a local backlog is enough for the workshop.

8. PROPOSED ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA — APPROVE BEFORE IMPLEMENTATION
1. Period and scope are visible; all three values exactly match the selected synthetic dataset
2. An editable native Word table, not only a screenshot or PDF
3. Synthetic source, reference date and template version are displayed
4. Reinsertion follows the selected rule; no user comment is lost
5. Missing period or null value: an explicit message, never zero or invented data
6. Office host, version and observed outcome are recorded; an unrun test is marked not executed
